marketplace/plugins/lc-essentials/skills/limacharlie-call/functions/generate-lcql-query.md, before:

# generate_lcql_query

Generate LCQL queries from natural language descriptions using AI.

## CRITICAL: Use Before run_lcql_query

**ALWAYS call this function FIRST before `run_lcql_query`.** LCQL uses unique pipe-based syntax that must not be written manually.

**Workflow:**
1. `generate_lcql_query` - Convert natural language to LCQL
2. `run_lcql_query` - Execute the generated query

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| oid | UUID | Yes | Organization ID ([Core Concepts](../../../CALLING_API.md#core-concepts)) |
| query | string | Yes | Natural language description |

## Returns

```json
{
  "query": "-24h | * | NEW_PROCESS | event.FILE_PATH contains 'powershell'",
  "explanation": "Searches for NEW_PROCESS events where file path contains 'powershell' in the last 24 hours."
}
```

## Example

```
lc_call_tool(tool_name="generate_lcql_query", parameters={
  "oid": "c7e8f940-1234-5678-abcd-1234567890ab",
  "query": "find all PowerShell executions in the last 24 hours"
})
```

## Notes

- Uses AI (Gemini) with LCQL-specific prompts
- Validates against your organization's event schema
- Retries up to 10 times to generate valid query
- Review explanation to ensure query matches intent
- Related: `run_lcql_query`

Commit message:

Fix invalid parameter name in behavior-hunter agent (#26)
* Fix invalid parameter name in behavior-hunter agent.

* Add additional base instruction to autoinit.md to guard against invalid
params.

* Fix out of date constants, add more guiadace on parameter naming, etc.

* Add a section on parameter validation.

* docs: clarify LCQL validation workflow to avoid redundant API calls

- generate_lcql_query() validates internally with up to 10 retries,
  so calling validate_lcql_query() afterward is unnecessary
- For user-provided/saved/external queries, prefer analyze_lcql_query()
  which combines validation + cost estimate in one call
- Only use estimate_lcql_query() for generated queries (already validated)
- Only use validate_lcql_query() for debugging syntax errors

Files changed:
 - docker/CLAUDE.md: Updated LCQL workflow section
 - functions/generate-lcql-query.md: Added built-in validation notes
 - functions/validate-lcql-query.md: Clarified when to use each function

* Fix docker compose / docker example in README.md - need to use init for
interactive mode and --it when running a container.

* fix: replace invalid -7d LCQL timeframes with -168h

LCQL uses Go duration format which supports h, m, s, ms but NOT d (days).
Changed -7d to -168h (7 * 24 = 168 hours) in example queries.

Files:
 - agents/behavior-hunter.md
 - functions/list-saved-queries.md
 - functions/set-saved-query.md

* Update skills to not directly render query in the table since it breaks
markdown formatting.

* Update the skill to always display query to the user before running it
(for transparency, reproducibility, etc.).

* For better UX, for paid queries always offer an alternative of a free query.

* For now, remove parameter_validation.md file.

marketplace/plugins/lc-essentials/skills/limacharlie-call/functions/generate-lcql-query.md, after:

# generate_lcql_query

Generate LCQL queries from natural language descriptions using AI.

## CRITICAL: Use Before run_lcql_query

**ALWAYS call this function FIRST before `run_lcql_query`.** LCQL uses unique pipe-based syntax that must not be written manually.

**Workflow:**
1. `generate_lcql_query` - Convert natural language to LCQL
2. `run_lcql_query` - Execute the generated query

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| oid | UUID | Yes | Organization ID ([Core Concepts](../../../CALLING_API.md#core-concepts)) |
| query | string | Yes | Natural language description |

## Returns

```json
{
  "query": "-24h | * | NEW_PROCESS | event.FILE_PATH contains 'powershell'",
  "explanation": "Searches for NEW_PROCESS events where file path contains 'powershell' in the last 24 hours."
}
```

## Example

```
lc_call_tool(tool_name="generate_lcql_query", parameters={
  "oid": "c7e8f940-1234-5678-abcd-1234567890ab",
  "query": "find all PowerShell executions in the last 24 hours"
})
```

## Notes

- Uses AI (Gemini) with LCQL-specific prompts
- **Built-in validation**: Validates each generated query internally before returning
- **Auto-retry**: Retries up to 10 times with feedback injection if validation fails
- **No need to call `validate_lcql_query()`** after this function - returned queries are guaranteed valid
- **Always display the query to the user before running it** - show both query and explanation
- Review explanation to ensure query matches intent
- Related: `run_lcql_query`, `run_lcql_query_free`
