marketplace/plugins/lc-essentials/skills/limacharlie-call/functions/validate-lcql-query.md, before:

# validate_lcql_query

Validate an LCQL query syntax without executing it.

## Use Case

Use this tool to check if an LCQL query is syntactically valid before running it with `run_lcql_query`. This is useful for:
- Verifying generated queries are valid
- Debugging query syntax errors
- Pre-flight validation before expensive queries

## CRITICAL: LCQL Syntax Rules

**LCQL does NOT support `limit:N` or `count:N` syntax.** These will fail validation.

| Invalid Syntax | Why |
|----------------|-----|
| `-1h \| * \| limit:10` | `limit:N` is not LCQL |
| `-1h \| * \| count:5` | `count:N` is not LCQL |
| `-1h \| * \| LIMIT 10` | Missing 4th component |

**Valid LCQL requires 4 components:** `[timeframe] | [sensors] | [events] | [filter]`

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| oid | UUID | Yes | Organization ID ([Core Concepts](../../../CALLING_API.md#core-concepts)) |
| query | string | Yes | The LCQL query to validate |

## Returns

```json
{
  "valid": true,
  "query": "-1h | * | NEW_PROCESS | / exists"
}
```

If invalid:
```json
{
  "valid": false,
  "query": "-1h | * | limit:10",
  "error": "no match found, expected: \"|\", [ \\t\\r\\n] or [a-zA-Z0-9_.]"
}
```

## Example

```
lc_call_tool(tool_name="validate_lcql_query", parameters={
  "oid": "c7e8f940-1234-5678-abcd-1234567890ab",
  "query": "-1h | * | NEW_PROCESS | event/FILE_PATH contains 'cmd.exe'"
})
```

## Notes

- Does NOT execute the query, only validates syntax
- Use `run_lcql_query` with `limit` parameter for result limiting
- Use `estimate_lcql_query` to get resource estimates (includes validation status)
- Use `analyze_lcql_query` to get both validation status and resource estimates
- Related: `generate_lcql_query`, `run_lcql_query`, `estimate_lcql_query`, `analyze_lcql_query`

Commit message:

Fix invalid parameter name in behavior-hunter agent (#26)
* Fix invalid parameter name in behavior-hunter agent.

* Add additional base instruction to autoinit.md to guard against invalid
params.

* Fix out of date constants, add more guiadace on parameter naming, etc.

* Add a section on parameter validation.

* docs: clarify LCQL validation workflow to avoid redundant API calls

- generate_lcql_query() validates internally with up to 10 retries,
  so calling validate_lcql_query() afterward is unnecessary
- For user-provided/saved/external queries, prefer analyze_lcql_query()
  which combines validation + cost estimate in one call
- Only use estimate_lcql_query() for generated queries (already validated)
- Only use validate_lcql_query() for debugging syntax errors

Files changed:
 - docker/CLAUDE.md: Updated LCQL workflow section
 - functions/generate-lcql-query.md: Added built-in validation notes
 - functions/validate-lcql-query.md: Clarified when to use each function

* Fix docker compose / docker example in README.md - need to use init for
interactive mode and --it when running a container.

* fix: replace invalid -7d LCQL timeframes with -168h

LCQL uses Go duration format which supports h, m, s, ms but NOT d (days).
Changed -7d to -168h (7 * 24 = 168 hours) in example queries.

Files:
 - agents/behavior-hunter.md
 - functions/list-saved-queries.md
 - functions/set-saved-query.md

* Update skills to not directly render query in the table since it breaks
markdown formatting.

* Update the skill to always display query to the user before running it
(for transparency, reproducibility, etc.).

* For better UX, for paid queries always offer an alternative of a free query.

* For now, remove parameter_validation.md file.

marketplace/plugins/lc-essentials/skills/limacharlie-call/functions/validate-lcql-query.md, after:

# validate_lcql_query

Validate an LCQL query syntax without executing it.

## Use Case

Use this tool to check if an LCQL query is syntactically valid before running it with `run_lcql_query`.

**When to use:**
- Debugging query syntax errors (validation only, no cost estimate needed)

**Prefer `analyze_lcql_query()` instead when:**
- Validating user-provided LCQL queries that will be executed
- Validating saved queries retrieved via `get_saved_query()`
- Validating queries from external sources (documentation, scripts, etc.)
- Pre-flight check before expensive queries (beyond 30 days)
- `analyze_lcql_query()` combines validation + cost estimate in one call

**When NOT to use:**
- After `generate_lcql_query()` - it validates internally and retries up to 10 times, so returned queries are guaranteed valid

## CRITICAL: LCQL Syntax Rules

**LCQL does NOT support `limit:N` or `count:N` syntax.** These will fail validation.

| Invalid Syntax | Why |
|----------------|-----|
| `-1h \| * \| limit:10` | `limit:N` is not LCQL |
| `-1h \| * \| count:5` | `count:N` is not LCQL |
| `-1h \| * \| LIMIT 10` | Missing 4th component |

**Valid LCQL requires 4 components:** `[timeframe] | [sensors] | [events] | [filter]`

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| oid | UUID | Yes | Organization ID ([Core Concepts](../../../CALLING_API.md#core-concepts)) |
| query | string | Yes | The LCQL query to validate |

## Returns

```json
{
  "valid": true,
  "query": "-1h | * | NEW_PROCESS | / exists"
}
```

If invalid:
```json
{
  "valid": false,
  "query": "-1h | * | limit:10",
  "error": "no match found, expected: \"|\", [ \\t\\r\\n] or [a-zA-Z0-9_.]"
}
```

## Example

```
lc_call_tool(tool_name="validate_lcql_query", parameters={
  "oid": "c7e8f940-1234-5678-abcd-1234567890ab",
  "query": "-1h | * | NEW_PROCESS | event/FILE_PATH contains 'cmd.exe'"
})
```

## Notes

- Does NOT execute the query, only validates syntax
- Use `run_lcql_query` with `limit` parameter for result limiting
- Use `estimate_lcql_query` to get resource estimates (includes validation status)
- Use `analyze_lcql_query` to get both validation status and resource estimates
- Related: `generate_lcql_query`, `run_lcql_query`, `estimate_lcql_query`, `analyze_lcql_query`
