marketplace/plugins/lc-essentials/AUTOINIT.md, before:

# Using LimaCharlie

## Required Skill

**ALWAYS load the `lc-essentials:limacharlie-call` skill** before any LimaCharlie API operation. Never call LimaCharlie MCP tools directly.

## Critical Rules

### 1. Never Call MCP Tools Directly

- **WRONG**: `mcp__plugin_lc-essentials_limacharlie__lc_call_tool(...)`
- **CORRECT**: Use Task tool with `subagent_type="lc-essentials:limacharlie-api-executor"`

### 2. Never Write LCQL Queries Manually

LCQL uses unique pipe-based syntax validated against org-specific schemas.

- **ALWAYS**: `generate_lcql_query()` first, then `run_lcql_query()` with the generated query
- Manual queries WILL fail or produce incorrect results

### 3. Never Generate D&R Rules Manually

Use AI generation tools:
1. `generate_dr_rule_detection()` - Generate detection YAML
2. `generate_dr_rule_respond()` - Generate response YAML
3. `validate_dr_rule_components()` - Validate before deploy

### 4. Never Calculate Timestamps Manually

LLMs consistently produce incorrect timestamp values.

**ALWAYS use bash:**
```bash
date +%s                           # Current time (seconds)
date -d '1 hour ago' +%s           # 1 hour ago
date -d '7 days ago' +%s           # 7 days ago
date -d '2025-01-15 00:00:00 UTC' +%s  # Specific date
```

### 5. OID is UUID, NOT Organization Name

- **WRONG**: `oid: "my-org-name"`
- **CORRECT**: `oid: "c1ffedc0-ffee-4a1e-b1a5-abc123def456"`
- Use `get_org_oid_by_name` to convert a single org name to OID (cached, efficient)
- Use `list_user_orgs` to list all accessible orgs with their OIDs

### 6. Timestamp Milliseconds vs Seconds

- Detection/event data: **milliseconds** (13 digits)
- API parameters (`get_historic_events`, `get_historic_detections`): **seconds** (10 digits)
- **ALWAYS** divide by 1000 when using detection timestamps for API queries

### 7. Never Fabricate Data

- Only report what APIs return
- Never estimate, infer, or extrapolate data
- Show "N/A" or "Data unavailable" for missing fields
- Never calculate costs (no pricing data in API)

### 8. Spawn Agents in Parallel

When processing multiple organizations or items:
- Use a SINGLE message with multiple Task calls
- Do NOT spawn agents sequentially
- Each agent handles ONE item, parent aggregates results

## Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)

Organizations can define SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) in LimaCharlie that guide how tasks are performed. SOPs can be large documents, so they are loaded lazily (similar to Claude Code Skills).

### On Conversation Start (Load Index Only)

At the beginning of every conversation involving LimaCharlie operations:

1. **List all SOPs** using `list_sops` for each organization in scope
2. **Store ONLY the name and description** of each SOP (ignore the `text` field - it may be truncated or large)
3. Use this index to identify when an SOP might apply to current work

**Important:** Do NOT read or use the full SOP content at this stage. The `list_sops` response may include a `text` field, but ignore it - always call `get_sop` when you need the actual procedure.

### When Performing Tasks (Load Full Content)

Before executing any significant operation:

1. **Check SOP relevance**: Compare the current task against stored SOP descriptions
2. **If a match is found**:
   - Announce: "Following SOP: [sop-name] - [description]"
   - **MUST call `get_sop`** to retrieve the full SOP content (do not skip this step)
   - Follow the procedure defined in the SOP
3. **If multiple SOPs match**: Announce all matching SOPs, call `get_sop` for each, and follow all applicable procedures

### Example Workflow

1. User asks to investigate a malware alert
2. LLM checks stored SOP index: "malware-response" matches (description: "Standard procedure for malware incidents")
3. LLM announces: "Following SOP: malware-response - Standard procedure for malware incidents"
4. LLM calls `get_sop(name="malware-response")` to load the full procedure
5. LLM follows the documented steps from the loaded SOP content

## Sensor Selector Reference

Sensor selectors use [bexpr](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-bexpr) syntax to filter sensors. Use `*` to match all sensors.

### Available Fields

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `sid` | string | Sensor ID (UUID) |
| `oid` | string | Organization ID (UUID) |
| `iid` | string | Installation Key ID (UUID) |
| `plat` | string | Platform name (see values below) |
| `ext_plat` | string | Extended platform (for multi-platform adapters like Carbon Black) |
| `arch` | string | Architecture (see values below) |
| `hostname` | string | Sensor hostname |
| `ext_ip` | string | External IP address |
| `int_ip` | string | Internal IP address |
| `mac_addr` | string | MAC address |
| `did` | string | Device ID |
| `enroll` | int | Enrollment timestamp |
| `alive` | int | Last seen timestamp |
| `is_del` | bool | Sensor is deleted |
| `isolated` | bool | Sensor is network isolated |
| `should_isolate` | bool | Sensor should be isolated |
| `kernel` | bool | Kernel mode enabled |
| `sealed` | bool | Sensor is sealed |
| `should_seal` | bool | Sensor should be sealed |
| `tags` | string[] | Sensor tags (use `in` operator) |

### Platform Values (`plat`, `ext_plat`)

**EDR Platforms:** `windows`, `linux`, `macos`, `ios`, `android`, `chrome`, `vpn`

**Adapter/USP Platforms:** `text`, `json`, `gcp`, `aws`, `carbon_black`, `1password`, `office365`, `sophos`, `crowdstrike`, `msdefender`, `sentinel_one`, `okta`, `duo`, `github`, `slack`, `azure_ad`, `azure_monitor`, `entraid`, `zeek`, `cef`, `wel`, `xml`, `guard_duty`, `k8s_pods`, `wiz`, `proofpoint`, `box`, `cylance`, `fortigate`, `netscaler`, `paloalto_fw`, `iis`, `trend_micro`, `trend_worryfree`, `bitwarden`, `mimecast`, `hubspot`, `zendesk`, `pandadoc`, `falconcloud`, `sublime`, `itglue`, `canary_token`, `lc_event`, `email`, `mac_unified_logging`, `azure_event_hub_namespace`, `azure_key_vault`, `azure_kubernetes_service`, `azure_network_security_group`, `azure_sql_audit`

### Architecture Values (`arch`)

`x86`, `x64`, `arm`, `arm64`, `alpine64`, `chromium`, `wireguard`, `arml`, `usp_adapter`

### Example Selectors

```
plat == windows                           # All Windows sensors
plat == windows and arch == x64           # 64-bit Windows only
plat == linux and hostname contains "web" # Linux with "web" in hostname
"prod" in tags                            # Sensors tagged "prod"
plat == windows and not isolated          # Non-isolated Windows
ext_plat == windows                       # Carbon Black/Crowdstrike reporting Windows endpoints
```

### Extensions
Not all extensions have a configuration, to determine if an extension is subscribed to, use `list-extension-subscriptions`.

Commit message:

Require oid (#10)
* Require Org choice

* Tweak SOPs

marketplace/plugins/lc-essentials/AUTOINIT.md, after:

# Using LimaCharlie

## Required Skill

**ALWAYS load the `lc-essentials:limacharlie-call` skill** before any LimaCharlie API operation. Never call LimaCharlie MCP tools directly.

## Critical Rules

**ALWAYS require the user to specify the organization or organizations they intend to operate on**, NEVER assume.

### 1. Never Call MCP Tools Directly

- **WRONG**: `mcp__plugin_lc-essentials_limacharlie__lc_call_tool(...)`
- **CORRECT**: Use Task tool with `subagent_type="lc-essentials:limacharlie-api-executor"`

### 2. Never Write LCQL Queries Manually

LCQL uses unique pipe-based syntax validated against org-specific schemas.

- **ALWAYS**: `generate_lcql_query()` first, then `run_lcql_query()` with the generated query
- Manual queries WILL fail or produce incorrect results

### 3. Never Generate D&R Rules Manually

Use AI generation tools:
1. `generate_dr_rule_detection()` - Generate detection YAML
2. `generate_dr_rule_respond()` - Generate response YAML
3. `validate_dr_rule_components()` - Validate before deploy

### 4. Never Calculate Timestamps Manually

LLMs consistently produce incorrect timestamp values.

**ALWAYS use bash:**
```bash
date +%s                           # Current time (seconds)
date -d '1 hour ago' +%s           # 1 hour ago
date -d '7 days ago' +%s           # 7 days ago
date -d '2025-01-15 00:00:00 UTC' +%s  # Specific date
```

### 5. OID is UUID, NOT Organization Name

- **WRONG**: `oid: "my-org-name"`
- **CORRECT**: `oid: "c1ffedc0-ffee-4a1e-b1a5-abc123def456"`
- Use `get_org_oid_by_name` to convert a single org name to OID (cached, efficient)
- Use `list_user_orgs` to list all accessible orgs with their OIDs

### 6. Timestamp Milliseconds vs Seconds

- Detection/event data: **milliseconds** (13 digits)
- API parameters (`get_historic_events`, `get_historic_detections`): **seconds** (10 digits)
- **ALWAYS** divide by 1000 when using detection timestamps for API queries

### 7. Never Fabricate Data

- Only report what APIs return
- Never estimate, infer, or extrapolate data
- Show "N/A" or "Data unavailable" for missing fields
- Never calculate costs (no pricing data in API)

### 8. Spawn Agents in Parallel

When processing multiple organizations or items:
- Use a SINGLE message with multiple Task calls
- Do NOT spawn agents sequentially
- Each agent handles ONE item, parent aggregates results

## Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)

Organizations can define SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) in LimaCharlie that guide how tasks are performed. SOPs can be large documents, so they are loaded lazily (similar to Claude Code Skills).

### On Conversation Start

Before running LimaCharlie operations:

**List all SOPs** using `list_sops` for each organization in scope, extracting only the name of the SOP and the `description` field.
**During operations** if an SOP description sounds like it applies to the current operation, call `get_sop` to get the actual procedude.
**Take into account** the contents of the fetched SOP, if a match is found, announce: "Following SOP: [sop-name] - [description]"

### Example Workflow

1. User signals intent to work on org 123
2. LLM lists SOPs on org 123: "malware-response" => description: "Standard procedure for malware incidents"
3. User asks to investigate a malware alert on org 123
4. LLM announces: "Following SOP: malware-response - Standard procedure for malware incidents"
5. LLM recognizes the "malware-response" SOP relates to this and calls `get_sop(name="malware-response")` to load the full procedure
7. LLM follows the documented steps from the loaded SOP content

## Sensor Selector Reference

Sensor selectors use [bexpr](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-bexpr) syntax to filter sensors. Use `*` to match all sensors.

### Available Fields

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `sid` | string | Sensor ID (UUID) |
| `oid` | string | Organization ID (UUID) |
| `iid` | string | Installation Key ID (UUID) |
| `plat` | string | Platform name (see values below) |
| `ext_plat` | string | Extended platform (for multi-platform adapters like Carbon Black) |
| `arch` | string | Architecture (see values below) |
| `hostname` | string | Sensor hostname |
| `ext_ip` | string | External IP address |
| `int_ip` | string | Internal IP address |
| `mac_addr` | string | MAC address |
| `did` | string | Device ID |
| `enroll` | int | Enrollment timestamp |
| `alive` | int | Last seen timestamp |
| `is_del` | bool | Sensor is deleted |
| `isolated` | bool | Sensor is network isolated |
| `should_isolate` | bool | Sensor should be isolated |
| `kernel` | bool | Kernel mode enabled |
| `sealed` | bool | Sensor is sealed |
| `should_seal` | bool | Sensor should be sealed |
| `tags` | string[] | Sensor tags (use `in` operator) |

### Platform Values (`plat`, `ext_plat`)

**EDR Platforms:** `windows`, `linux`, `macos`, `ios`, `android`, `chrome`, `vpn`

**Adapter/USP Platforms:** `text`, `json`, `gcp`, `aws`, `carbon_black`, `1password`, `office365`, `sophos`, `crowdstrike`, `msdefender`, `sentinel_one`, `okta`, `duo`, `github`, `slack`, `azure_ad`, `azure_monitor`, `entraid`, `zeek`, `cef`, `wel`, `xml`, `guard_duty`, `k8s_pods`, `wiz`, `proofpoint`, `box`, `cylance`, `fortigate`, `netscaler`, `paloalto_fw`, `iis`, `trend_micro`, `trend_worryfree`, `bitwarden`, `mimecast`, `hubspot`, `zendesk`, `pandadoc`, `falconcloud`, `sublime`, `itglue`, `canary_token`, `lc_event`, `email`, `mac_unified_logging`, `azure_event_hub_namespace`, `azure_key_vault`, `azure_kubernetes_service`, `azure_network_security_group`, `azure_sql_audit`

### Architecture Values (`arch`)

`x86`, `x64`, `arm`, `arm64`, `alpine64`, `chromium`, `wireguard`, `arml`, `usp_adapter`

### Example Selectors

```
plat == windows                           # All Windows sensors
plat == windows and arch == x64           # 64-bit Windows only
plat == linux and hostname contains "web" # Linux with "web" in hostname
"prod" in tags                            # Sensors tagged "prod"
plat == windows and not isolated          # Non-isolated Windows
ext_plat == windows                       # Carbon Black/Crowdstrike reporting Windows endpoints
```

### Extensions
Not all extensions have a configuration, to determine if an extension is subscribed to, use `list-extension-subscriptions`.
